welcome everyone to this week's ipld
sync meeting
it's december 14th 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've done in the past week
and stuff that we do next week and then
discuss
any agenda items there might be and
today we even have agenda items
which is great so um
my update is again not that exciting
and not really ipd related just
partially
is i still worked on the store the hash
stuff like
it's the storage for um chronic address
data
um basically i was just running
benchmarks but
on larger datasets so it just takes so
long so the data said so the dataset i
was running on
like i was first it was
about 70 million keys
which is about 80 gigabytes of data and
then on the huge data set which is 77
gigabytes with around 800 million keys
and depending on the store so for
example like i had a test run over the
weekend with lmdb
it took 24 hours to insert um
and so my storage is around in the first
one was eight hours
and picture was like five and a half
hours although if i do mine with pure
rust and not going through the ghost
stuff it's also around five hours
um so um yeah
but yeah and just to get a bit of an
idea also like because it's really
interesting
that um for example like when the test
runs were done with for example the 80
million keys
lmdb is super comparable to badger like
there's not
that much performance difference but
then if you go around like
10 times as much data it totally changes
yeah how they perform
which yeah depends on how you how your
data store works but that's kind of like
expected
but it's good to measure um those things
as well
although yeah i'm still not sure like
what ficon really needs and
if it needs to scale like this or not or
yeah we need to figure out like
do we need to such things or not and
yeah but still interesting to see how it
compares
and it's not optimized at all yet um but
yeah we'll see
so basically what i now do is i just
clean it up and push it to the
um model system in rust and then i
kind of like call it done because like
then basically my prototype is done
and then yeah we can discuss moving
forward with this
or not i'm putting it to go or do
whatever but then i
basically consider my job done for
further discussions
um yeah that's
all i have um
hopefully like this week i really want
to do some apology stuff again
and so next on my list is danielle
cool so i've had a kind of slow week but
i did continue
working on the refactor for ipld prime
to use
in 64 for values so the basic idea is
that
and go the type end is you know it's the
machine
it's a machine integer size so if it's a
32-bit then you could only fit the
32-bit integers and i guess that's not a
good idea for
ipld in general so the obvious ones here
are as in
uh and assignment as rod pointed out a
few days ago
we actually had thought about this a few
weeks ago but i forgot when you erased
that issue which was a bit silly of me
but i've got a couple of agenda items
later because there are actually many
other methods that use integers
and the question is should those also be
in 64 or not i lean towards yes but i
want to check
um i'm also continuing to help martin
with go quick reviews
so most of the small ones that he wanted
to get out the door are done
and now there's some bigger stuff and i
think i'm going to have to read
actually start reading the spec before i
do more reviews because i have no idea
what i'm doing
and i also noticed that his package
qtls is broken with go 116 and the
package is called
qtl esco 115 so it's not surprising um
but sort of it's sort of a chicken neck
problem because he says i'm going to
test it with core 116 once
beta 1 is out and beta 1 is 2 weeks late
um and there's it's only like six weeks
until the final release
and that's more like three weeks because
of the holidays um
so i think ipfs is going to ship um well
one go 16 ships go ipfs might not even
work with that version
um i have no idea we'll see
but i do think there should be some sort
of policy with testing with upcoming go
releases with time
and i think the time would be now which
is like about six weeks before the final
release
and to end on a good note i know my
lighting has been horrible for a long
time so i got something
and i can even like make myself really
shiny but i'm not gonna do that
so anyway you could actually you can
actually see me now which is good
and that is it for me
thanks um i forgot one item um on
friday night and there was a bit of a
jscid
feature release
craze so we i did like four releases or
something
within like five hours because the
random things broke
so the problem was that so there was
type type
script information added
and we do some crazy things in
javascript and it was kind of like
simplified why do we so it was
not purely adding types but also like
doing like just one small change
and then those small changes broke
things and then the types broke other
systems and like the
like in typescript then of course it
actually bubbles up and like yeah it was
like so basically the problem was that i
don't even have enough
knowledge about the whole type scripting
thing
and i was relying on other people to
basically tell me yeah okay that's
that's totally fine to do and then
yeah things broke and yeah um which
kind of like makes me think that i
probably like
perhaps like for now it's okay but
perhaps someone else should maintain
jscid who knows those things because
like
i really didn't feel comfortable with
doing all this and just
yeah um but anyway now we have a fixed
version which basically everyone who
reported something
for everyone involved it works it's a
bug fix release so everyone who should
upgrade so
we haven't upgraded within the those
five hours should be totally fine and
don't see anything but yeah it was kind
of
not that good what we did there um
yeah hopefully we can prevent such
things in the future
and also not doing it on friday nights
perhaps um
next on my list is eric
um so let's track to the list we're not
aborted
um so in go pld prime we have tagged and
shipped
a release of something um we're calling
it the 0.6.0
it starts with a zero because it will
always start with zero
it starts with a six in the middle
because that's the next number
up and it ends with a dot zero because
go mod
can't handle two numbers only
so there's a zero versioning
the point of this release is to contain
absolutely nothing anybody who
is using this library you should upgrade
to it immediately because it should be
trivial
there's a bunch of small features and
small bug fixes since
the v0.5.0 which was in mid-summer
but there are no
no breaking changes so it should just be
easy
we're going to attempt to follow this up
by some more of the changes that
daniel was talking about which will be
small breaking changes so the point
is give you a nice checkpoint and then
the next step should just be
small easy so
a couple of other things that i've done
internally this week
a bunch of the things that are starting
to use code gen inside of the go ipld
prime repo are now using standardized go
generate tags
copying daniel's conventions for that so
that's more operationally reasonable now
um we did go ahead and merge the pr
which
is a prototype of the schema package
so that provides the type information
and all of the information that powers
the code generator
there's a new one which is prototyping
handling that data
using cogent types we merged at
it has not completely replaced the old
placeholder types that you have to drive
around programmatically
but it's moving it's moving in that
direction
i've been picking up a bunch more
protocol labs internal comms this week
of which turns out there's um a lot i'll
say no more about that
and there is a document where i've been
cooking on goals that we could have for
ipld in 2021
um i think i dropped that link in here a
week or two ago
still there i'm slowly growing it i
haven't added too many more
goals there's no scope creep um
but just been trying to explain some
other things by like challenges that we
become aware of in this year
a little more explanation and backstory
about
why a bunch of the goals start talking
about tools stuff
the virtue of tools is like being
a demonstrable educational interactive
experience stuff like this
um maybe it's boring maybe it's not
i don't know i wrote a bunch i'm done
that's my report
thank you um next is
uh peter is peter here
yeah oh yes yes i am
yes here i am uh yeah so actually uh uh
again a very
chaotic week with very very little to
show for it
on i built the things um
uh update on the the store that i
am trying to put together basically
where lotus runs against
a fully relational database
it finally syncs correctly it does the
job
it's still not sufficiently fast for me
to
kind of call it done and let it you know
run until new year to catch up
number one number two there are a few
like very troubling
things that show up and i want to make
sure that i didn't make mistakes
somewhere
but it looks like we actually do not
like store the complete chain
because the way i built it is
i um
i analyze every individual block that
gets
put in the store and i make placeholders
for any cid that is being referenced
uh and then later on i expect the c8s to
be backfilled
obviously for stuff like the the compies
and the commas
and stuff like uh you know inlines and
some a few types of um
what they call them a few types of
robots rossi ids are kind of expected to
never show up but we have some
actual cyborg stuff that is referenced
by
messages that i have and i do not have
the
uh related content for them and also
from a
regular learning clubhouse i also cannot
find this content so um
i need to make a pass over the entire
thing to make sure that i'm actually you
know
not rocking something myself and i guess
i'll hand this over to
like rat or somebody to to do a little
bit more analysis like what exactly
is missing um but yeah
uh other than that it's uh
it's interesting like it's still it's
still a massive massive massive database
because i
additionally store a bunch of um
extra metadata about the blogs
themselves uh but
because it is you know nicely packaged
in
in standard boring stuff uh postgres
basically
i one would be able to pull
you know to pull this over the network
and be able to just you know to just
use that locally and uh
request the queries to work as
performantly as i expected
to so you can uh like do
a full export of cafe essentially
in like in like minutes i suppose the
hour that they need
right now for the for the big cars that
we actually need four hours
for for the big cars within touching
so yeah uh it's been
interesting and well i know you're we
are waiting for this it's
like almost there but yeah
not quite where is the code at some
point you should point me to where the
in progress code is
uh yeah i can i can i can push it but uh
i basically
like i will push it but absolutely no
guarantees it's not cooperate with
anything that anybody like
tries to understand because like i'm
going to rearrange the entire thing
again
that's fair it'll just become more real
for me once it's existing
yeah absolutely um and for the missing
uh cids uh if you figured out where
they're being referenced from
that isn't expected that already sounds
super valuable and like something that
uh
i'd be interested in tracking down or
raising
fires about yeah uh i
like i'm not entirely sure that it is
a real mistake or it is just my thing
dropping stuff
uh because that it's it's a bit of a
mess of concurrency because like
if you if you could say well this
message is referencing it and i don't
have it that would be enough that i
i'd spend a cycle trying to figure out
if like api chain love and some of the
other
official lotus notes have it and if not
then that's a where is this why isn't
this getting put let's start tracking
around this sort of thing
i will try to get a few today for you
then
all right um next is rod
okay so i'll continue on that thought
then because i did have a continuation
of that one
um so i've been doing work in that area
but it's
it's about i've been trying to get to
analysis stuff and
i'm trying to do it in javascript and
then i know people will frown like that
but
it's it's just so much easier to
prototype stuff in javascript so quicker
so much quicker and um
and i'd also want to use it as a way to
push your head out tooling
um but trying to do
it's this this problem of scale which is
what peter's running into as well
it's which is really good to be running
into because it's exposing weaknesses
everywhere um weaknesses in our tooling
weaknesses in the
way we think even think about this stuff
um
and that's really good and that's
spurring work everywhere like even
vodka's work is the same same stuff so
this problem of scale is really
interesting
um and causing problems and i can't
i can't ingest the data fast enough in
javascript
it's just not practical it's completely
impractical
and i've been trying to figure out why
a lot of that is and um one of the
things i ended up working on
late last week was getting back to doing
more of my javascript cbo
stuff to just to see if i can because
when you're doing traversals you you
just tend to want a certain subset of
the data
just one links um and
seeing if there was ways i could improve
that just
low-hanging fruit and um one of the
things that surfaced was that
like we've known our sibo parsing
library
has not been optimal um
but um i
my parser i've managed to get at least a
10 times speed up
and just basic decoding which is
like that's encoding is is different but
decoding is like
i don't even know there's not there's
some weird thing going on in that code
that is causing that it's like
i don't even know how you get that slow
and yet it's benchmarked against other
seymour libraries
and it claims to be faster and so so
i'd like to understand some of the some
of what's going on in that but
in the meantime i've got at least i've
got a path to actually doing
and of course i've got code that if i
just want to pull out links i can do
that too now so i've got these pieces
that are slowly falling into place
this is not high priority work but it's
becoming higher priority because of this
scale thing
so that's one of the things i've been
working on last week though
um bulk of my time was spent on three
things which was
docs for the amt
which i've had i had a pull request for
that
repo a number of months ago and the code
moved on dramatically since then and so
i've redone the docs
and that's ready to land there's just
one little quibble
um that may have even been resolved
today but um that's pretty much ready to
land and it
it it's it's code comments it's
algorithmic description
and then there's a high level algorithm
description in a
a doc.go um file that
really summarizes it and volker actually
had read that and said that
he understood the algorithm by reading
that which is
i'm very happy about because that means
that i've done my job there
so though that's a big deal um
it the aim there is to make it so that
this algorithm
isn't just hidden in code in really
obscure code
uncommented code that it's actually
uh that multiple people can understand
it and have input into it
and so because currently there's like
three or four people that
rock it and so this should help with
that so that should get merged this week
i think
um go dag pb
i tied it up finished up got um all the
tests
done i'm really happy with that um and
that's now in the ipld.org
as go codec dagpb um and that
surfaced the 32-bit bug thanks to martin
and his ci work actually testing on 32
bits
so that was the and the reason the
interesting thing was that
they came up because of cross language
tests which i was i was testing the
javascript
integer limits uh in the test fixtures
and then putting them into go that takes
you to
you know like a 53 bit integer and
um that's more than 32 bits and so it
was
you know truncating that to minus one so
it'd be nice to get that sorted out or
at least have some
approach to deal with that um
and lastly uh they did some help with
proto school working on some merkle dag
content uh so it looks sort of like
introduction to thinking about ipld
content um
and um it was it's quite impressive work
uh as an introductory material
it a lot of overlap with the um some of
the presentations that a few of us have
been doing
the last few months introducing ipld
ideas
um so that's that'll be good to have
that come out and
i think it will align nicely with other
work we're doing for
education so that's me
thanks next one is will
well yeah um not a lot of ipld stuff
in the past week or likely this week um
but a range of things going on and a
couple things that are maybe
worth asking because the people here are
probably the ones who know the answers
uh so one thing that i have been
thinking about uh was when i was
thinking
through the graphql interface
something that would be super nice to
have is a schema and
data matching that schema that can be
used as the
making this a concrete example and also
as testing
which is what i'd really like is you
know something that is
doing things like it has a map it has
some unions it has
you know um it exercises lists and it
exercises all the different parts of our
schema
or most of them at least but then i can
use that to generate what the graphql
thing is
and then i can have tests on that
generated thing
right when i look at all the testing in
graphql
implementations and go they have a star
wars schema
as their like example and they use that
as a thing that makes a real
like thing where you can query which
characters appear in which movies and so
they've got you know
some examples of you know many
commanding relationships one to many
even each one
um some enums of types of characters
so so they've got you know an extensive
enough but still
small and concrete and so there's you
know a small database that's in the repo
and just sort of
allows for that self-contained thing of
like seeing how you would use it in
various situations which is super
valuable to have
um and so having a car and a schema
definition for that car
that is you know order from egg and yet
extensible enough to have everything
seems like something that
i was looking for and haven't found um
if we have one or can think of a topic
that we would
be you know a reasonable concrete thing
on which to have one that
isn't too cheesy um but still
interesting that seems like
it's a thing that would be nice to then
be able to face things off of
so i haven't come up with one that uh
i i want to directly propose but you
could imagine maybe like
uh astronomical objects that that's in
fitting with our various themes
um something like that maybe yeah just
don't use a modern fiction reference i
don't want to see harry potter or star
wars
jeez okay um
the the other thing that i'm wondering
if there's something i should point to
uh yet another like blockchain company
was like we want to store our historic
archives
uh on ipfs and make them available right
now what we have is
order of hundred gig archives that we
snapshot every
six hours how do we store those and i
really wanted to be able to have an
answer that was well actually if you
semantically understand it with schema
you can just have the
delta updates and not store another
new 100 gig archive every six hours that
seems easier
and i know we have the bitcoin one is
that the right thing to point them to
is there tooling that would help them
watch their chain for new blocks and
then push the new blocks as they
exist into pinned ipfs nodes or things
do we do we have enough of this story
that there's more than just archives
this is i didn't know the answer yeah
there's no good answer
basically um no but no there's there's a
number of discussions going on and um
actually you should link you should loop
in adding to that discussion
uh he's been uh i've been pulling him
into those
those discussions have been extremely
helpful in
it really understanding the limits of
ipfs for that kind of use case
and also some alternative models for
doing it um but yeah this it sounds like
you've got overlap between us
and ipfs um like at least the din what
hit
i i had looped in dietrich but i think
you might be on vacation so that's maybe
not actually the right person do it
definitely do again because he was
he's been really good uh but but they're
all but your point about
having it like actually as ipld data is
really good
and definitely that should be something
we can talk about so you can feel free
to look them in
to us if you want um i and and yes the
bitcoin
stuff is a good example and yes that is
one of those things
i need to finish up so it can be used as
an example because it's
the spec is not done and i've only got
the javascript code which is not as
helpful to a lot of people and
um but yes that that keeps on coming up
and so it
it's back into one of my higher
priorities to get done but i'm happy to
talk about it with people at least so
awesome will follow up offline
uh other than that short question on
that in big picture
do they have a new
weird custom codec or do they have
something that is vaguely familiar to us
i don't know uh this is parody so
it's yet another known blockchain
other than that uh putting together a
talk um
trying to scope out what
measurement of ipfs also reconciling
there's a
resnet lab wants to have a network
observatory ipfs wants to
have metrics on their stuff these two
are very diverging requirements but
somehow they've decided one group of
people should do all of them and that
is not necessarily a recipe for success
so we're trying to make progress there
cool
thanks i didn't have it i thought that
sorry there was a thought that i had
um if that's okay um just to go back to
the discussion about peter finding
missing blocks
um so i've been doing traversals from
headers out into the
state um and so far i think the
um i've been walking back in the chain
and on file coin and so far
there's only that one block i reported
to you peter that was missing that i i'm
aware of
so i'm not seeing like a systemic
hole in the the block data that's been
stored anyway so far so yeah it's it
that
there's a tricky part it's not systemic
in terms of um
like i get i think
about one in a million so you will not
find that
oh no i mean i'm doing i'm i'm doing
millions
but you know many millions right there
but it's
certainly not deep into the chain like
i'm not yeah
exactly so this is literally like every
single block that is ever referenced it
is
making a placeholder for it so that's
how i can just
just just entrance like uh you know give
me all the stuff that doesn't have
because the content is certain a
different table and i'm like
just give me everything that doesn't
have content yet and they like keep
growing
over time as as the chain progresses and
the whole point is that there shouldn't
be
garbage like this left in the block
store because
the commit of lotus is supposed to be
like complete like if it's storing
something it needs to store also
all the pieces of it and even if this
thing ends up not being referenced by
the
winning chain it still shouldn't end up
in the block store
and like
something is not right there i am at
this point i'm like 50 percent
willing to blame my own code for this
and i need to instrument better and uh
it has turned a little faster than what
it does right now because i'm still
doing about
six seconds per tip sets with very heavy
caching and that's not enough i need to
bring it down to like two or one seconds
and then and i can let it drip
uh and the other thing is that
uh the problem with the s3 data
was that i assume that the badger block
store will just give me a list of what
it has
and i realized that this does not
actually work well so you have a static
block store you literally cannot pull
every single block out of it
by a simple list you literally have to
walk the chain because
it works with you know give me this
particular key
and then give me this particular key but
it does not work very well with the give
me this channel of your
you know i know how many million keys
and it doesn't actually give
everything back and then there was also
the problem with the with the latency
that everybody ran into so i can depend
on the sd part
uh and yeah because like
the way that is organized now they put
this in the ipld channel and there's a
schema
there as well but basically you
literally can write a recursivity
and speed out all the plugs that you
want with essentially with the selector
because instead of having to know how to
divert the blocks when i store them
i just say this block those are all its
children
pre-parsed this costs a ton of space
but it's worth the space
all right am i political
on the gen items the first item
it's from me it's about js multi-codec
so that's about that it came up in
recent discussions like
yesterday and the day before um
this is friday um about like when we
were breaking cid and also like there's
ideas about restructuring js
multi codec and so on and so
we certainly like at least i consider
the current stuff we have as like the
legacy part that is still maintained
for ipfs but you should really use the
new stuff
and so my quest is probably mostly to
write about like what's the current
state of js
multi formats so is it ready to say okay
like
people use that one and yeah
and it should work and if it doesn't
work it's a bug we'll fix it and
yeah yeah what do we still need the
answer is yes to that
it it should cover the the bulk of the
surface area that people care about
um it's just because ipfs doesn't use it
um then a lot of the use cases
are problematic so because people often
come to ipld and want to couple it with
ipfs or
you know do that that thing in the
middle and um
because that's that hasn't happened
there's this awkwardness but you can see
in
uh that um because i was talking today
about even
bringing forward the timeline to
integrate that work yes
so we've also taught it today in the
ipfs
def meeting or whatever it is called um
and so basically like also for from alex
the signal that we like
probably it's really something that
should be in the okrs for
q1 for the ipfs team that they really
make space to
look into upgrading to the js
multi-format stuff
and the idea from alex is to do it
similar to what we did with
um like the
asynchrony reflector that you kind of
like start at the bottom so
in our case it's ipld obviously so
basically we start with
flipping the codecs over to using the
new stuff and then
hopefully find a way to slowly move up
and this my next question is like do we
have like the
i know you wrote that you've worked on
some like also on the codex a bit so do
we already have codecs that work with
the js multi-format stuff yep
yep there's possibly some holes but the
main one's done
um i finished up dag pb that was the big
missing one but um yeah we've got all
the codex and
and one of the nice things about the new
tool the new tool
chain is that um the dependency trees
are really shallow
and so when you when you pull in the
pieces you just don't get this massive
string of things
so a migration for ipfs i could imagine
could actually take a you know a a
piecewise approach where they don't have
to worry that they're going to have two
stacks
full of massive dependency trees because
the new one will have just enough
for the bit that they're using and then
they can sort of inch in um
there was a there was an outstanding
question that is relevant uh which is
which kazala had which is
um he because he's looking at this
wasm stuff and he's thinking about uh
the challenges of the current approach
and we've had on going discussions about
whether the current approach is right or
whether we should be
heading towards a something a little bit
more like ipld prime and
we've even got disagreements on the team
about that but that
that raises the question of um
is it is it safe to assume that the
current
js multi-formats approach is
stable enough or are we going to be
replacing it in six months with a new
thing
and uh i don't think we've got an answer
for that
because there's not enough agreement on
yeah the way forward and there's there's
there's enough uncertainty
amongst some of us to suggest that
the answer may be no like um it might be
so related to that like what's the so
as i worked on also like the js ipld
thing that ipfs is using so what's the
what's our current replacement for it i
i remember like
fighter's block api but like what's the
current like
which would actually be the the like do
we currently have a replacement for what
js ipod is doing
currently which is basically just like
bundle the codex and
having some api of like yeah
good question michael was gonna do uh
where is it he was gonna do js block as
like an update just like
this was actually a point of
disagreement between him and gonzalo the
api there
so he has i think he has a branch where
he's
he started migrating to the latest
multi-formats but him and gaza
have a different difference of opinion
about how about how
the pieces pull together there my
approach has been simply to just
push that away and say no i'm just going
to use the base pieces and forget that
okay
so but i remember that like i did
remember from michael that he said that
the approach from gozala is way better
so i think they've settled on
the gosala's approach whatever it was so
i basically so i i would talk with
godzilla about like
if he knows like what the replacement
would be because like
this is kind of like the missing piece
obviously because like because
ideally when we do the the soul upgrade
thing
um what the js ipfs team would do is
they
just talk to a different js ipd kind of
and like then everything else will be
like the news that kind of
ideally like i i i i'm well aware that
this won't work this way
um but in theory this would be like
yeah okay yeah there's i think there's
there is actually enough in js multi
formats like there's a tree and a path
and links stuff like this
there's those utility things already in
there um
so i think there's enough in there as it
is it's just this question of how
you because it's built around the idea
that all these codecs and
hashes are separate entities and you use
them individually
and then there was this concept of how
do we step up from there and pull them
all together into a singular thing that
we interact with
and and that was the outstanding issue
okay
that and i i i really don't believe that
they have
agreement there yeah because i was good
ideas
i'm not even sure like anyway but yes
look it's ready enough and it's actually
it's actually performant too like it's
i think it's faster than a lot of the
other the older starting stack as well
i hope it is like the old stack is like
certainly not
not good at performance um and is the so
is like who would you say is the
maintainer of
js multi codec
multi-codec or multi-formats as sorry
as mighty formats sorry uh well we are
we we yeah but but
but i so i like like i would probably
jump in first because
i i would say michael like is you know
but michael doesn't tend to
take that much of a maintainer role but
so i'm pretty much
that's what i'm aware of so therefore
like it's yeah yeah
okay yeah so i i answer pull requests
but i i
like gizala has got a lot of mind
sharing there as well so i'd probably
pull him in for a lot of stuff
because like what like ideally like
that's kind of like that also like was
my long time plan like
i kind of like get the chance of like
basically this is my
last action on the javascript kind of
things hopefully and obviously i help
moving on from like
the old stuff to the new stuff and then
i kind of like i'm more or less out of
it
to the right stuff so therefore
basically i'm asking to like
yeah who would i talk but i'm like i'm
totally like i'm totally happy doing
like like
i'm busy if i do the whole like first
quarter only javascript work that's
totally fine with me like
like getting this transition because
like it's a lot of work certainly
i'm totally happy to like yeah yeah help
with that
so yeah i i mean
in terms of putting a name on it i i
take responsibility for
all the codecs and hashes and stuff and
and then i would just hope that other
people would
jump in as as they have expertise but
for the codex
i i think i'm pretty much taking
responsibility for them um
in multi-formats yeah okay because then
when i talk to the
js ipfs people that i'm yeah
con picking the right people and yeah
okay cool
uh yeah i think that's that answers all
my questions and
um cool yeah i probably talked with
gosala about it and then
yeah we'll figure something out the big
thing for ipfs is that
dagpb now does pure data model stuff
and it's just like you you you get and
you give
the shapes that go into the data
according to the spec the schema that we
defined for dagp
which is really nice because now it
matches the other codecs and it's just
this
it's a bit but it means that uh ipfs has
to take more responsibility for
um forming those objects right there is
some help in the dagp codec for doing
that but
it's yeah yeah which is kind of like
what js
ipf is no it's more than code extremely
anyway yeah so
that's certainly something i can use
between between
js ffs and js ipod then
and ideally like this was also like
because like js is really
yeah more or less just the bundle so i
think it will be even less
so it will be even like there won't
really be a js ipld it will be just
very little glue code hopefully yeah and
i think that was part of the aim at
least from michael's perspective is that
this thing shouldn't come up to this
singular point that's just not how we
javascript
and it's also not it's not
it's also not really what probably what
we should be doing with ipld ends as
well like
it's this whole thing about are we a
product team or not and no
i don't think we are so let's not
produce a big
big product i mean that's a different
that's one of the differences with go
is that we are doing that in go so
okay yeah cool um thanks yeah this this
helps a lot and yeah i will
yeah see what we do there in the also
like busy so we should
certainly also like plan time like if
the js ipfs team decides to do it in
q1 we should also plan time accordingly
to help them
getting this done because like we will
be the first ones
that do some work i guess um yeah cool
all right um there are two more origin
items from danielle
so yeah
yeah so i'll be pretty brief i think we
all agree that as
and and and assigned assign end should
be in 64
because again on 32-bit using end is not
a good idea because that limits us to
32-bits
um so then the question is there are
many more interfaces and methods that
use
end instead of in 64. and they generally
revolve
around length of things or size of
things
such as length for a list
kind or when you iterate over something
the index it gives you is an end
or path segments and lookup by index
which also work on it
so on one hand my initial thought was
well these things
if their lists are mapped in general
they should fit in memory
so int is fine because interestingly for
things that fit in memory
but then um some of ipld is designed so
that you know you can use data
structures that
are maybe too big to fit into a single
machine and
on the other hand you also have cases
where
you take an integer value and then you
use it as a key
or as an index so some pieces of the
code if we make one thing
in 64 but not the lists and lengths and
so on
then there would be this mismatch and
some of the ipld prime code
would have to for example handle
overflows which i don't think is a good
idea
so i tend to think that everything
should be in 64 even if
some things like path segments nobody
would ever use them as n64
any thoughts oh and one more point
in favor of n64 for all those methods i
think is adls
because i might want a list adl that for
example returns
an infinite number of elements i don't
think that's a good idea but wherever a
large amount of elements even if they
never exist
i was talking to martin about this
yesterday and he was equally frustrated
but
i i feel like i'm missing something here
about go and its decision to use int as
the default type
um okay
so here we go um my the only the theory
i had
for why you would do that is because if
you encourage developers to be flexible
about their integer types then
then you get the opportunity to make
smaller and more efficient binaries on
32-bit
platforms when you compile them down um
because if everyone's just using 64-bit
ins then you're probably going to end up
with
awkward binaries in 32-bit platforms
um so by encouraging that soft space in
the middle
then you open up opportunities for
optimizations
that's the only thing i come up with to
me it just seems like
you should just use in 64 by default
honestly i think it's the sea heritage
looking through
uh of all the authors being basically
sea otters as well
and there the end is your you know it's
your basic end
and in goal it essentially looks through
from
lengths of arrays and lengths of
uh you know but basically lengths of the
primitive types and the primitive types
are expressed obviously
in your machine native sizing and it
also from there
like in go on a 32-bit box you cannot
have
an array with more than 32-bit elements
in
the scan because it will overhaul its
length and that's that
yeah and this might be going into a
tangent but there's a proposal by one of
the
creators of go that says let's swap in
to be arbitrary size and supposedly the
compiler could be smart enough
so that if you use a local end variable
and the cobala can see that it fits into
64 bits for example
then it wouldn't have to use a big end
it would automatically just
use a small end and then in code that it
doesn't know it would essentially branch
depending on whether or not it detects
an overflow
but i think they're not going to do that
because it would break too much existing
code
yeah i was so excited about this one i
think they shut it down like
two weeks ago like very recently
anyway the summary of that from my from
my perspective is i don't see a reason
not to
have code in 64 in these places um
indexes are a little bit hard to justify
but it's like
it just seems like to me it seems like
int
is flawed so just avoid it
yeah i also can't go ahead
i was going to say if we're not sure i
would even argue that by default we
should just choose a specific
size instead of the machine dependent
just because ipld is supposed to be
portable
so i i also agree that we should change
it
one of my earliest issues on on specs is
why does that data model just say end
without you know specification of size i
hate hints without specification that's
horrible
so yeah if anywhere we can we can put a
qualifier that the 64-bits
let's let's do that
well in italy it's specified it's big in
basically
unlimited
except over 50 53 bits you get a little
bit awkward
yeah it's unlimited for some values of
unlimited yes
yeah unlimited world it's unlimited
um and i think so i think we all agree
that all the methods
that use and meaning to be some size or
some index or some
segment or something like that they
should all be in 64.
and then the other item is just you know
i'm trying to automate all of these
changes as much as possible so that
downstream's going to have to manually
fix a lot of code and fixing the
function signatures the function types
is fine it's easy
fixing the code that uses those
functions initially i thought
i can just fix the code to you know
insert the correct
type conversions and so on but then i
realized i can't really because i might
be introducing
um overflow handling that maybe the user
doesn't want or
hasn't realized so i think for all these
changes downstream should just
carefully adapt the code and the
question is are we okay with that
i think we are because i think most
changes
should be fairly trivial but i guess it
does open up the question that
a lot of some downstreams might need to
think a little bit harder about
overflows and so on
yeah i think we just have to on that i
did some
weekend fun time project in which i
decided on a work to try writing a
program with mixtures of
integer sizes and go and just see how
much i hated my life
and it turned out but i hated my life
quite a bit
and the places the the exact places in
which i hated my life
were you you would think
that it would you would you would get
some sort of a knack for it
you would be able to anticipate where
you're going to need these casts
and i just
two hours into the project i had no
functional institutions five hours of
the project i had no functional
anticipations 20 hours into the project
i still had
no functional anticipations and every
once in a while i'd be like
let's try changing this thing this isn't
a big number let's go back to normal in
for this and the cascade
i think the amount of automation that we
can do for this is
limited and we should admit it and move
on
all right so no it's not all right
it's not all right it's not all right
any other items and by the way thank you
for
whoever is taking the notes perfect
um
[Music]
yeah johnny yeah so i've had some
progress with the
the did specification so um i'll put it
into the chat so
the uh currently it's still draft but
dag cbor
is in there i'm getting some pushback
right now
from the w3c about well
ipld isn't like a formal specification
yet so we can't
point to it normatively so um i would
appreciate if you guys take a look at it
it's a huge amount of work for mostly
um we had all these arguments about an
abstract data type
model to actually go in between
different formats uh including json
jason ld
yaml and and cbore and um
so i wrote the entire seabor section
including the dag seabor which i'm
obviously very invested in and mostly
just
limiting that to everything that's at
seaboard but the only you're using a tag
and that tag is
is 42. karsten did get back to me
actually he was quite helpful
he wouldn't actually join the working
group probably because he said forget
w3c that's just nuts like why would you
want to do that
like juan warned me about two years ago
and uh but
it is getting some progress um i have a
meeting tomorrow there's big pushback
about dag cbor
because like how do you bridge different
representations so seabor it's easy
but what about dag jason
and how to actually take like the
representation in tag 42 and represent
that
in json so in different formats so
there is this such a thing as a did core
registry uh which i'm also involved in i
wrote the all the cddl
for the validation of our did document
and different subsections of the
document all in cddl
which works fine in sibor and json um
seymour being a superset of json
um but i'm i need uh
some some help pushing back against w3c
that mostly my argument tomorrow is
going to be
that the did specification is
representing the data model and what's
on the left hand side
the properties like you can't restrict
people
for what they're going to put in the
right-hand side the values of that um so
if we actually have a good data model
and
tag 42 to represent dag c-bor
and i can get through into a registry
let's say if i register
the path the slash as being the
equivalent in json to map between
cbore and jason in a lossless fashion
uh then i think i have some
defense i was wondering like one of the
few
good sorry we do have it defined for
doug jason
and we did we this was it last week or
the week before
we spent some time clarifying some of
the outstanding issues around
particularly that
and also the bytes stuff and that hasn't
quite made it up into our stack jason
spec
but i don't know how far you want to
push it but you could
it does convert cleanly to dag jason and
back again
[Music]
so but then but then does that mean that
you have to write up a whole day jason
section in there as well like
is that what they care about probably
yeah
it's so amazing because uh man who
sporney is the one who actually is
giving me the most pushback
and um uh pl and juan actually
um uh contracted him to actually help
write up the
multi-hash and multi-for
multi-hash at least um specification for
the ieee but
he's the biggest um one pushing back on
on cids and the surprise
who is it manu
wrote the ietf for multi-uh codec for it
specification
there's um i'm sorry i'm getting on my
multi there's multi formats multi codecs
multihash
multi-adders maybe maybe was that
because
there was some work on multi-f uh
multi-codec and multi-hash
but that was james snell who's possibly
probably bumped into in that area as
well but he
yeah that wasn't that was like last year
so probably p dates that yeah hashtag
and it's also he's bastardized did it
actually
they're calling it hash link and here so
here's the itf
um i want to know
this is this is why you should interact
with this hatchling
oh goodness
so one thing we had talked about before
with michael was um really like the road
map for getting the ipld specification
published
in like iatf and i know like it's
um it's in like q1 q2 of next year
and but it really helped me with uh
making a counter argument that
yeah this is an emerging specification
we're defining
the data model for interoperability with
other did
specifications and here's a dag seabord
for the structure
and the value of it is actually being
flushed out
so this this i guess this gets to a a
bit of a conflict for us because we
explicitly don't want to
be the itif for ipld
we don't want to do what the ietf does
for ipld
um and we don't want to spend our time
endlessly bike shedding about
minor details um but we also want to
provide functional
specifications that people can actually
use um
and so finding that middle point is
tricky
um but have getting pulled into things
like that
you could force a hand if we were to go
too deeply because
we don't have a fully full spec for
seaboard so we're not going to use it
well are we going to go and do a full
spec for daxibor that
would they would be happy with probably
not because that's the whole point is
that
that's what there's a reason why we
haven't done this for the ietf
because we don't want to be doing this
for that
year so um i don't know i
i don't know what how to tackle this one
because it's the more we go into that
the more we
turn ipld into an atf offshoot
and i don't think any of us want that
but if if there's practical things that
we can do to clarify like if there are
real
if there's real concrete feedback about
this is under defined
and or this is this is not clear
then that's probably feedback we should
take on advisement and actually do
something about
where it's meaningful and be able to
see that point of what's too much like
if it's unreasonable
then we need to figure out what that
means to be unreasonable but if there's
if there's
johnny if you're if you've got specific
feedback about what the work we need to
do on our specifications then
we should look at that i
i can also like i i kind of see the
problem
from shawnee that lately for yeah for
other standards in
in order to adopt ipld or parts of it
like it needs to be a normative spec
like that's like so i was a bit involved
in the ogc which is kind of like the i
don't know like the
w3c for geostandards um and that would
be the same problem so if i
would want to convince someone there
they would say where's the number to
spend
and if you don't have one like yeah
you don't have a chance to get it in um
so you can totally see this point but
yeah um
but i also agree with the world that we
are clearly like at least like i would
say we're
clearly like quite far away from it to
get it to this point
and also questions like who gets it to
this point
right yeah so i think the most
the defense right now is that hey uh
basically we're doing that the entire
purpose of the did working group is data
modeling
and um right now explicitly stating tag
42 and dag cybor
is um is this how you do it
but the work of the working group is not
about the values on the right-hand side
and that's other specifications
dbd
[Music]
okay
all right um is there anything else
yeah so if there's nothing else then um
thanks everyone for attending and
um oh i also put like on the notes like
i will be off
for three weeks and the monday after so
you won't see me the next few meetings
so
someone else will probably do this
meeting next week
um so yeah see you all next year and
some people perhaps next week